editor_reply

Dear Dr Shore,

We write regarding the referee report we received on paper AA/2015/26961.   We do not agree with the assessment and the proposed revision is unacceptable to us, for reasons that we will describe below.  You write that as editor you, after lengthy discussions with the referee, agree with their assessment.  However, as the report is brief and lacking in explanation, and we are not privy to even the conclusions reached by your discussions, we are unclear on exactly what it is that you agree with and what this agreement is based on.

In any case, the fundamental impasse we seem to have with the referee is that the referee is focussed on the details of the molecular partition function calculations.  This is, of course, an important part of the work, but it is a rather narrow view.  The referee writes:

"
The authors have address all my minor concerns very well BUT they freely admit that they have only done 30% of the project because it is too much work to do all of it.  We are therefore faced with publishing an updated compilation which for 30% of the molecules (probably the most important ones) is an improvement but for the other 70% may well be worse that that provided in the literature during the last 35 years. 

Below is a list of molecules that, in my opinion, are the most important. 

....
"

We completely disagree with almost every aspect of this review and will take the points in order.

As in the first review, the referee seems to define "the project" as providing a definitive partition function for each and every one of the circa 300 molecules.  We feel we have explained in our reply and in the manuscript, that *our* goals for the molecular calculations are related to completeness in terms of temperature range and range of covered molecules.  These objectives are at least equally as important in astrophysical applications, such as modelling opacities in stellar and planetary atmospheres, as having the latest piece of data for every state in every molecule.     

In stating that we "have only done 30% of the project", the referee is focussed only on the molecular partition functions and equilibrium constants.  Again, this completely ignores the work for atoms, the work on dissocation energies, and that we have in fact done calculations for these other 70% of the molecules over a much larger temperature range than can be found in the literature, as well as gone to considerable lengths to present the data all in a open way that can be built on.  We have done 100% of the project *we* set out to do.  If the project could be done better (with more resources) is a separate question.  We are not under the impression that every project published in journals is definitive - progress must come in steps.  The step we have made is non-trivial and has taken considerable time - we are not being lazy.

The referee states that "for the other 70% may well be worse that that provided in the literature during the last 35 years".  We think this an extremely negative way to phrase the state of affairs.  The referee makes it sound like we are ignoring 35 years of data for over 200 molecules, yet has not provided an example of a published partition function that is significantly different to ours.  The referee provided two examples of compilations in the first report, and in our reply we showed that practically all these molecules had up-to-date data for their ground states.  We added the example of CO to the plots showing the partition functions are essentially indistinguishable, despite that we may not have the very latest data for all excited states.  Now the referee simply repeats the claim without explanation or evidence (with the guarded language "may well"), and the argument seems to rest on the specious assumption that because data are old they are wrong or useless.  We have conceeded the point that one "may well" find examples of calculations with a temperature range comparable to ours based on more accurate input molecular data, and thus probably "better" than ours.  But, as we have explained, these are among the molecules that are unlikely to be important, and if higher accuracy for these molecules should turn out to be important in a given astrophysical application, the user may replace them or replace and/or add to the data and do their own calculation.  Our calculations in these cases are still a step forward compared to the ST and Irwin data from the 1980's still in wide use in astrophysics, as we have extended the temperature range of the calculations, a non-trivial step.  If the referee would like to criticise our calculations or update them, the referee will be free to do so, as we publish all input data used.

Regarding the list of molecules, on consultation with you, we later learn that the list of molecules is a list which the referee will permit us to publish data on, with no explanation of how this list has been reached beyond that they are the most important "in [the referee's] opinion".  We note that many astrophysically important molecules are omitted: for example all molecules containing Mg are omitted, one of the most important elements in astrophysics, despite that five such molecules have data for their ground states updated from Irikura's recent compilation.  

In summary, we feel that the referee report is overly negative, focussing on the shortcomings of and limitations of the range of only a part of the work with respect to some ideal vision of how the referee thinks this part of the project should or could be.  There seems to be no acknowledgement of the large amount of work that has actually been done and the positive aspects of the work with respect to what is actually published and is currently used in the astrophysical community, and the reasons why such data sets are used.  The referee seems to imply that our honest admission of the work's weaknesses is a negative which detracts from the work, rather than simply good scientific practice.  Our suggestion would be that the paper is sent to a further referee, ideally one with an understanding of the broader appplications of our data set in astronomy and astrophysics, for adjudication.

Yours sincerely, Paul Barklem & Remo Collet